so we have the umass burger management
course and that's a one credit course in
the fall two credits in the spring
s'more credits in the spring because you
have to deal with all of these lovely
babies all over the place
kind of an exception took a look at
school
the original students have the
opportunity to learn about handling
management all sorts of things to do
with husbandry of these animals here we
breed them and we sell them to make
profit we sell them for meat we sell
them as pets to whoever wants to have a
pet goat and we sell them for breeding
purposes there are a few local farms in
the area who like to buy some of our
goats because we do have a really give a
nice herd and it some is a very healthy
herd we're part of the scape scrape
eradication program and we we are closed
herd because of that and that means that
we're trying our best to avoid things
like CAE just kept praying on arthritis
and encephalitis and things like CLR
Casius lymphadenitis there's a bunch of
diseases that we try to keep out of the
herd so a relatively clean heard and a
lot of people like to buy or the goats
from us because we're clean we have
really good management practices and we
have relatively nice animals that they
can get this isn't all red doling maybe
had this is our first one
she's probably gonna be pretty valuable
these people
total red coat color genetics it's a
recessive gene to know the different
colors I think black in Gore goats is
the most recessive and that's not
actually recognized by some of the
showing associations we don't really
show the goat tear but we still like to
go for the nice conformation and
generally like nice-looking animals
because we do sell to folks in the area
who want to show the animals so the
students in the class they learn in the
fall they learn all about breeding we
teach them about buck management and
dough management how to tell when a
dough has been bred we teach them how to
ultrasound the animals to check for
pregnancy we teach them some basic
things like how to halter a goat and
lead it and catch it and handle it and
how to hoof trim so all sorts of things
that they need to know if they're gonna
go try to raise goats of their own or go
work at a farm or possibly go to vet
school it's really good hands-on
experience I'm Danielle and I'm
graduating this upcoming to me animal
science yeah I didn't apply to vet
school for this upcoming year I'm hoping
to work for a shelter or be a bit - I'm
Mallory Craig and I'm a sophomore so
love Natalie Goodman I'm a sophomore I'm
gonna graduate in 2015 and then I'm
animal science right now on the free vet
track but I'm not sure if I want to be a
vet I'm thinking vet tech -
you
and in the spring we have everybody
kidding and that's that's our main focus
as the kids
you
so then when kidding actually starts all
students are responsible for these goats
students that are assigned to a goat and
they have to take care of the mother
when she's having her baby they have to
take care of the babies they have to go
and weigh the babies every week so that
we can tell producers when they buy the
goats from us so this goat has like a
half a pound a grow three which would be
really good
you
I would like to be a large animal that
I like to specialize in small ruminants
like goats and camel ads because that's
where I've had experiences here at UMass
is with the goats and the alpacas but I
definitely like to learn more about
cattle and equines these guys are my
favorite
you